[Music]
I've anis yen hey I've wanted to make a
video here for a little while talking
about my current job search and my plans
to possibly relocate to Japan but
possibly anymore on planet Earth to be
honest with you I just filled out a job
application the other day that asked me
the intentionally vague and frustrating
question of please describe an
experience that has changed who you are
in the world and then after that it
specifies 200 words
[Laughter]
asking you supposedly profoundly
meaningful and profoundly relevant to
the job you're applying for question and
then it's given you 200 words to do it
so this is really the the Twitter
generation of you know define your
barriers soul for the world in in 200
words this particular job was indeed
relevant to my past work experience
doing humanitarian work and research in
Southeast Asia
so I attempted in only 200 words to tell
the heartbreaking story of a woman in
Laos who during the Vietnam War a war
that by the way is referred to as the
American War over in that part of the
world if you want to sound sophisticated
especially in speaking the local
language um during the Vietnam War she
had to flee up into the mountains and
across the border from Laos and Vietnam
to escape u.s. bombardment pretty common
story that general outline of it at
least and while she was working her way
along one of these mud roads through the
mountains a helicopter an American
helicopter came down from the sky at the
slot of them even though they were of
course just civilians fleeing that also
was fairly common well-documented - on
the whole in the in the war anyway so
this helicopter came down and shot them
or shot at them I might
say and they scattered and tried to hide
themselves in the water of the river or
just fled in all directions as civilians
will do in those circumstances and one
detail the story that definitely rings
true by the way those big guns that are
that are bolted onto helicopter gunships
it's nothing like a rifle it's not like
being shot by a pistol or or handheld
rifle this has come up a few different
times in my political science career or
so to speak if you get hit by around
from one of those guns because they're
designed to be able to at least stop a
truck but quite possibly to stop a tank
and also to go a long distance itself
tremendous power
it'll tear your body in half getting hit
by just one shot and if you get hit
clean in the midsection it can carry all
your internal organs at your body that
kind of thing is the the amount of
energy is so tremendous I am just now
thinking that a couple of people might
have clicked on this video not at all
expecting to hear a gory war story and
that's exactly what your 200 words I
tried to tell this heartbreaking story
that I heard in in Laos moving through
the mountains try to escape the ravages
of war and there was one woman who was
carrying her own newborn baby still
breastfeeding when she was shot by the
helicopter gunship in these
circumstances and the bullet probably
hit her in the hips and took the bottom
half of her body clean off definitely
took both her legs off and while she's
lying there in shock she can still speak
for a few minutes or a few seconds or
what-have-you after this has happened
and she says to the survivors after the
helicopter has gone away carry me along
with you a little ways so I can
breastfeed my infant one last time
and then set me down when I died and
they did exactly that the men picked up
the half of a woman not yet a corpse and
that half of a woman held on to her baby
and breastfed as they walked along a
little ways and after some time they
felt the body turn lifeless and of
course it wasn't holding on to the baby
quite the same way anymore and they put
the body down took the body out of her
arms and then went along the West
supressed of the way
they did eventually escape into the the
caves they were seeking there in the
mountains and the woman who told me that
story survived the war learning to read
and write at a chalkboard in a cave in
the high mountains Northwestern Vietnam
so that is the story I attempted to tell
in 200 words when this job application
asked me to describe an experience that
had changed my life in my place in the
world
[Music]